The President:
Hi.
This week, I got the chance to
sit down with some impressive
students at Lorain County
Community College in Ohio.
One of them was a woman
named Andrea Ashley.
Two years ago, Andrea lost
her job as an HR analyst.
And today, she's getting
certified in the fast-growing
field of electronic
medical records.
Before enrolling at Lorain,
Andrea told me she was looking
everywhere trying
to find a new job.
But without a degree, she said
that nobody would hire her.
Andrea's story isn't unique.
I've met so many Americans
who are out there pounding the
pavement looking for work
only to discover that they
need new skills.
And I've met a lot of employers
who are looking for workers,
but can't find ones with the
skills they're looking for.
So we should be doing everything
we can to put higher education
within reach for
every American --
because at a time when the
unemployment rate for Americans
with at least a college degree
is about half the national
average, it's never
been more important.
But here's the thing: it's
also never been more expensive.
Students who take out loans to
pay for college graduate owing
an average of $25,000.
For the first time, Americans
owe more debt on their student
loans than they do on
their credit cards.
And for many working families,
the idea of owing that much
money means that higher
education is simply out of reach
for their children.
Now in America, higher
education cannot be a luxury.
It's an economic imperative
that every family must be able
to afford.
That's why next week I'll be
visiting colleges across the
country, talking to students
about how we can make higher
education more affordable --
and what's at stake right now if
Congress doesn't do
something about it.
You see, if Congress
doesn't act,
on July 1st interest rates on
some student loans will double.
Nearly seven and half million
students will end up owing more
on their loan payments.
That would be a tremendous blow.
And it's completely preventable.
This issue didn't
come out of nowhere.
For some time now, I've been
calling on Congress to take
steps to make higher
education more affordable --
to prevent these interest
rates from doubling,
to extend the tuition tax credit
that has saved middle-class
families millions of dollars,
and to double the number of
work-study jobs over
the next five years.
Instead, over the
past few years,
Republicans in Congress have
voted against new ways to make
college more affordable
for middle-class families,
while voting for huge new tax
cuts for millionaires and
billionaires -- tax cuts that
would have to be paid for by
cutting things like education
and job-training programs that
give students new opportunities
to work and succeed.
We cannot just cut
our way to prosperity.
Making it harder for our
young people to afford higher
education and earn their degrees
is nothing more than cutting our
own future off at the knees.
Congress needs to keep interest
rates on student loans from
doubling, and they
need to do it now.
This is a question of values.
We cannot let America become a
country where a shrinking number
of people do really well, while
a growing number of people
struggle to get by.
We've got to build an economy
where everyone gets a fair shot,
everyone does their fair share,
and everyone plays by the same
set of rules.
That's how the middle
class gets stronger.
That's an economy
that's built to last.
And I'm not only going to take
that case to college campuses
next week -- I'm going to
take it to every part of the
country this year.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.